Enumerating the Admin Interface
Logging in to the the admin interface
opens up the door for
further exploitation.
Before we start exploring ways
to elevate our current access,
let’s investigate the options
WordPress has to offer.
One good place to start
in WordPress is the Info tab
under the Site Health section.
On this page, we can determine that
the server is running WordPress
using PHP version 7.0.33.
We also find that the database
is running on an IP address
that is different than the
one we are currently targeting.
This is not unusual
as databases and web applications
are often run on separate servers.
Now that we have gathered some basic information,
we can attempt to elevate our access.
One convenient aspect of having
administrative access to WordPress
is that we can install our own plugins.
WordPress plugins are written in PHP
and do not have many limitations.
For example, we could upload a plugin
that contains a PHP reverse shell
or code execution capabilities.
Fortunately, there are
several malicious plugins
that have been created
just for this purpose.
One such plugin can be found
in the seclists package,
which can be installed in Kali with apt.
The file that we are looking for can
be found in Web-Shells/WordPress.
The specific file we are
looking for is plugin-shell.php.
Let’s quickly inspect it
to find out what it does.
Lines 2-9 are comments that
are required for WordPress
to recognize the file as a plugin.
Lines 12-14 attempt protect the file
from being deleted by the system.
Lines 20-24 will attempt
to run a system command
if the cmd variable is
set in the HTTP request.
The plugin will use the executeCommand
function in order to identify
and execute the appropriate PHP internal
API to run a command on the target system.
The executeCommand function
can be found on Lines 47-82.
The plugin-shell.php plugin is a catalyst
to execute commands on the system.
Once we are able to trigger arbitrary
code execution on the compromised host,
there are a number of ways we could
use to obtain a proper reverse shell.